Proofreading-OV-Runtime (#11658)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/OV_Runtime_UG/preprocessing_overview.md

## Introduction

When the input data does not fit to Neural Network model input tensor perfectly, this means that additional operations/steps are needed to transform the data to format expected by a model. These operations are known as "preprocessing".

### Example

> Consider the following standard example: deep learning model expects input with the `{1, 3, 224, 224}` shape, `FP32` precision, `RGB` color channels order, and it requires data normalization (subtract mean and divide by scale factor). However, there is just a `640x480` `BGR` image (data is `{480, 640, 3}`). This means some operations to be performed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the following standard example: deep learning model expects input with the `{1, 3, 224, 224}` shape, `FP32` precision, `RGB` color channels order, and it requires data normalization (subtract mean and divide by scale factor). However, there is just a `640x480` `BGR` image (data is `{480, 640, 3}`). This means that operations below must to be perform:
```

Author: > 

```suggestion
Consider the following standard example: deep learning model expects input with the `{1, 3, 224, 224}` shape, `FP32` precision, `RGB` color channels order, and it requires data normalization (subtract mean and divide by scale factor). However, there is just a `640x480` `BGR` image (data is `{480, 640, 3}`). This means that operations below must be performed:
```

The modal verb "must" does not take "to" preposition.

 - Convert `U8` buffer to `FP32`.
 - Transform to `planar` format: from `{1, 480, 640, 3}` to `{1, 3, 480, 640}`.
 - Resize image from 640x480 to 224x224.
 - Make `BGR->RGB` conversion as model expects `RGB`.
 - For each pixel, subtract mean values and divide by scale factor.

![](img/preprocess_not_fit.png)

> Even though all these steps can be relatively easy to implement manually in the application code before actual inference, it is possible to do it with Preprocessing API. Reasons to use this API are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even though all these steps can be relatively easy to implement manually in the application code before actual inference, it is possible to do it with Preprocessing API. Advantages of using this API are:
```

 - Preprocessing API is easy to use.
 - Preprocessing steps will be integrated into execution graph and will be performed on selected device (CPU/GPU/VPU/etc.) rather than always being executed on CPU. This will improve selected device utilization which is always good.

## Preprocessing API

> Intuitively, Preprocessing API consists of the following parts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Intuitively, preprocessing API consists of the following parts:
```

>  1. 	**Tensor:** Declare user's data format, like shape, [layout](./layout_overview.md), precision, color format of actual user's data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. 	**Tensor** -- It declares user data format, like shape, [layout](./layout_overview.md), precision, color format from actual user's data.
```

>  2. 	**Steps:** Describe sequence of preprocessing steps which need to be applied to user's data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 2. 	**Steps** - It describes sequence of preprocessing steps which are needed to be applied to user data.
```

>  2. 	**Steps** - It describes sequence of preprocessing steps which are needed to be applied to user data.

Author: ```suggestion
 2. 	**Steps** - It describes sequence of preprocessing steps which need to be applied to user data.
```

>  3. 	**Model:** Specify Model data format. Usually, precision and shape are already known for model, only additional information, like [layout](./layout_overview.md) can be specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 3. 	**Model** - It specifies model data format. Usually, precision and shape are already known for model, only additional information, like [layout](./layout_overview.md) can be specified.
```

> > **Note:** Graph modification of a model shall be performed after a model is read from a disk and **before** it is loaded on actual device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: Graph modifications of a model shall be performed after a model is read from a disk and **before** it is loaded on actual device.
```

@endsphinxtabset

### Declare User's Data Format

> To address particular input of a model/preprocessor, use `ov::preprocess::PrePostProcessor::input(input_name)` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To address particular input of a model/preprocessor, use the `ov::preprocess::PrePostProcessor::input(input_name)` method.
```

@endsphinxtabset

> Below is all the specified input information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are all the specified input information:
```

Author: > 

```suggestion
Below is all the specified input information:
```

The "information" noun is an uncountable, therefore it does not take plural.

@endsphinxtabset

> Now, if model input has the `{1,3,224,224}` shape, preprocessing will be able to identify the `height=224`, `width=224`, and `channels=3` of that model. The `height`/`width` information is necessary for `resize`, and `channels` is needed for mean/scale normalization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, if the model input has `{1,3,224,224}` shape, preprocessing will be able to identify the `height=224`, `width=224`, and `channels=3` of that model. The `height`/`width` information is necessary for `resize`, and `channels` is needed for mean/scale normalization.
```

### Preprocessing Steps

> Now, define sequence of preprocessing steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, sequence of preprocessing steps can be defied:
```

Author: > 

```suggestion
Now, sequence of preprocessing steps can be defined:
```

Let us not defy those steps ;)

@endsphinxtabset

> Perform as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perform the following:
```

   1. Convert `U8` to `FP32` precision.

>    2. Convert current color format (`BGR`) to `RGB`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. Convert current color format from `BGR` to `RGB`.
```

>    3. Resize to `height`/`width` of a model. Be aware that if a model accepts dynamic size, e.g. `{?, 3, ?, ?}`, `resize` will not know how to resize the picture. Therefore, in this case, target `height`/`width` should be specified. See also `ov::preprocess::PreProcessSteps::resize()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   3. Resize to `height`/`width` of a model. Be aware that if a model accepts dynamic size e.g., `{?, 3, ?, ?}`, `resize` will not know how to resize the picture. Therefore, in this case, target `height`/`width` should be specified. For more details, see also the `ov::preprocess::PreProcessSteps::resize()`.
```

>    4. Subtract mean from each channel. In this step, color format is RGB already, so `100.5` will be subtracted from each `Red` component, and `101.5` will be subtracted from `Blue` one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   4. Subtract mean from each channel. In this step, color format is already `RGB`, so `100.5` will be subtracted from each `Red` component, and `101.5` will be subtracted from each `Blue` one.
```

>    5. Divide each pixel data to appropriate scale value. In this example, each `Red` component will be divided by 50, `Green` by 51, `Blue` by 52 respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   5. Divide each pixel data to appropriate scale value. In this example, each `Red` component will be divided by 50, `Green` by 51, and `Blue` by 52 respectively.
```

>    6. Note that the last `convert_layout` step is commented out as it is not necessary to specify the last layout conversion. PrePostProcessor will do such conversion automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   6. Keep in mind that the last `convert_layout` step is commented out as it is not necessary to specify the last layout conversion. The `PrePostProcessor` will do such conversion automatically.
```

### Integrating Steps into a Model

> Build it when the preprocessing has been finished. It is possible to print `PrePostProcessor` configuration on screen for debugging purposes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Model can be finally build, once the preprocessing steps has been finished. It is possible to print `PrePostProcessor` configuration on screen for debugging purposes:
```

Author: > 

```suggestion
Model can be finally built, once the preprocessing steps have been finished. It is possible to print `PrePostProcessor` configuration on screen for debugging purposes:
```

We use past participle form of a verb in the passive voice.

@endsphinxtabset

> After this, a `model` will accept `U8` input with `{1, 480, 640, 3}` shape, with `BGR` channels order. All conversion steps will be integrated into execution graph. Now, load the model on the device and pass the image to the model as is, without any data manipulation in the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After this, a `model` will accept `U8` input with `{1, 480, 640, 3}` shape and `BGR` channels order. All conversion steps will be integrated into execution graph. Now, model can loaded on the device and the image can be passed to the model without any data manipulation in the application.
```

Author: > 

```suggestion
After this, a `model` will accept `U8` input with `{1, 480, 640, 3}` shape and `BGR` channels order. All conversion steps will be integrated into execution graph. Now, model can be loaded on the device and the image can be passed to the model without any data manipulation in the application.
```

> ## See Also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Additional Resources
```
